# DiceRollCPP
The program is designed as a dice rolling game where two dice are rolled up to a user specified amount of times. The roll count and dice numbers are displayed, as well as an associated dice name if applicable


The program focuses on the use of prototypes and functions, formatting practices, and the use of rand() in C++ to create a dice rolling game. The program inlcudes the following files: cstdlib for rand(), ctime to seed the random number generator, iostream for inputting via cin and outputting via cout, and iomanip for formatting purposes with the user of setw(x). To get more comfortable with using function prototypes, I programmed the function getRandom after main in order to keep a cleaner and more organized program. Starting off in main, since C++ rand() is not completely random, since it will output a random number, but repeat a sequence each time for the first random number that is generated, I seeded srand() with time(NULL), taking the time in milliseconds so that the rand() call is truly random each time the program is run. Following the seeding of srand() for rand(), the user is prompted to input an amount of rolls. Storing the input in a integer variable "userAmount," the program begins a for loop, looping the amount that is stored inside "userAmount." Inside the loop, I have variables "rollOne" and "rollTwo" that will act as the holders for the dice values when rolled. Each loop, the dice roll variables are assigned to the values returned by the getRandom function. Jumping to the getRandom function, it takes arguments for the minimum value and maximum value that will be used as boundaries when generating a random number, in this case the dice values of one to six. Since I seeded the random number generator earlier at the beginning of main, I just compute the random number generator values using the formula to obtain a number between one and six: rand()%((high - low) + 1) + low. The function then returns the number that is a result of that formula to main to be stored in either "rollOne" or "rollTwo" since they both need to be separate, random values. Returning to main, the program outputs the roll count and roll values, then goes through a series of if and else statements to see if the rolls have an associated name with them. First, if both rolls were 1, then the program outputs "Snakes Eyes" additionally on the same line as the dice values. Next, if both rolls were 6, then the program outputs "Boxcars" additionally on the same line as the dice values. Then, if either the values rolled were 1 and 4 - it does not matter which dice obtained 1 or 4 - the program outputs "Fever Fives" on the same line as the dice values. Finally, if there is no associated name with the dice values, then the program simply iterates to the next iteration of dice rolls. Once the for loop has completed all its iterations, the program terminates. 
